

                                GALasm 2.1

                          Portable GAL Assembler
                 Copyright (c) 1998-2003 Alessandro Zummo
        Original sources Copyright (c) 1991-96 Christian Habermann
                            All Rights Reserved

                   Commercial use is strictly forbidden


Introduction
------------

GALasm was created simply because there were no other
open source GAL assemblers. The assembler core
is basically the one of GALer, a GAL development
environment for the Amiga platform. I was unable
to get in touch with his author to get the permission to 
do the port, so if he complains i'll have to 
stop the development.


Copyright
---------

GALasm is Copyright (c) 1998-2003 by Alessandro Zummo
but any bug and any piece of code taken from the original GALer
sources is still Copyright (c) 1991-96 by Christian Habermann.


Disclaimer
----------

The authors can not be made responsible for any damage caused
by a fault of GALasm. In other words: use it at your own risk.
Even if i've ported it, i've not fully understood every
aspect of the assembler core.


Sources
-------

The sources are written in ANSI-C, so it should
be possible to compile them on any platform.
The sources have been successfully compiled
with SAS/C on the Amiga platform and with gcc
on Debian GNU/Linux.


About GALs
----------

Some kind of GALs are not reprogrammable and some others,
especially the one i belong to, are even not programmable at all...
ok, just kidding. The original GALer documentation
is a very well written, so if you want to know
how to write down a GAL equation, run your favorite
browser and load galer/main.html. All the non-Amiga
related sections are still valid for GALasm.


GALasm
------

If you type GALasm -h you should obtain the following text:

GALasm 2.1, Portable GAL Assembler
Copyright (c) 1998-2003 Alessandro Zummo. All Rights Reserved
Original sources Copyright (c) 1991-96 Christian Habermann

Usage:
GALasm [-scfpa] <filename>
-s Enable security fuse
-c Do not create the .chp file
-f Do not create the .fus file
-p Do not create the .pin file
-a Restrict checksum to the fuse array only

I think it's self explanatory, but if you've
any trouble, drop me a note. 


Author
------

 The author (me) can be contacted at azummo-galasm@towertech.it
 while the GALasm support page is located at
 http://www.towertech.it/azummo/

 If you have a bug report, a comment or anything else, 
 feel free to write me. 
 Donations are also welcome 8-) .

